# -MACHINE-LEARNING-TO-SUMMON-EFFECTIVE-MEDICATION-PRACTICE
Medication is the art of curing or preventing illness. The evolution of modern medicine represents a tremendous positive change in the approach to treating illness and disease. The rise of modern medicine has contributed immensely towards identifying the procedures to treat several diseases and prevent the spread of infectious diseases. Most medicines are prepared and targeted towards an average individual suffering the illness and are recently perceived as an ineffective process to treat an individual. Medication errors are equally recurrent in general practice which harms the patient and creates an unsafe treating environment. However, current technologies are enhancing the field of precision medicines which targets the individualized treatment based on genetic, phenotypic, biomarker, or psychosocial characteristics. (Jameson, 2015) 

Every drug uniquely interacts with each human body, so what works well for one individual may not help the another. Precision medicines are often referred to as the future of healthcare as it aims to tailor the medication as per the condition of the individual. According to “Trends in Precision Medicine Adoption” report by Oracle states (Issa, 2014) a majority of healthcare organizations in the world have planned to actively participate in precision medicine studies and invest on developing the technology in the next two years.

Implementation of the proposed data science project will ensure an efficient approach for diagnosing and treatment. Combination of unsupervised learning, supervised learning, predictive analysis and causal analysis in right proportions to arrive at data-driven conclusions will promise a strong evidence to make informed decisions to produce precision medicine and transform the complexion of treating an individual.  The project also fortifies a potential to generate huge volumes of data from various different sources that can also support clinical research for better medicine and to predict the future health risks of a community.
